People's Education Society University Ring Road Campus (PESU RR or just PESU), formerly PES Institute of Technology (PESIT), is one of three private universities under the name PES University in Bengaluru, India. Established in 1972,[3] it is focused on five main educational areas: Engineering, Medicine, Management, Law and Life Sciences. The institutions offer both foundation courses in these areas, as well as specializations, with a Bachelors, Master or PhD degree. It was upgraded to a university status in 2013.

PESU RR is managed by the People's Education Society (PES), which founded the institution in 1972, in a rented gymnasium in Bengaluru, with around 40 students. PES currently manages over 45 educational programs in Karnataka and neighboring Andhra Pradesh, with a total of over 15000 students.[5] PESU was founded in the year 1988.

Admission criteria

PESU admits 40% of its students to undergraduate courses based on their Karnataka CET and 60% seats based on PESSAT (the university's own entrance test) ranks. PESU also admits students under Management quota, which does not place any merit requirements. There is a lateral entry scheme in place, by which students holding diploma degrees can directly enter the second year of study in engineering. On graduating students receive a Bachelor of Technology degree.

Students are admitted to postgraduate courses based on their GATE test scores as well as on their Post Graduate Karnataka CET scores. Upon graduating, they receive a Master of Technology degree.

Course content and grading

All the courses which have been conferred autonomous status have their departments set their own course content and grading system. The college follows the credit-based system of performance evaluation, with proportional weighting of courses based on their importance. The total marks (usually out of 100) form the basis of grades, with a grade value (out of 10) assigned to a range of marks. For each semester, the students are graded by taking a weighted average of all the subject grades with their respective credit points. Each semester's evaluation is done independently with a cumulative grade point average (CGPA) reflecting the overall performance across semesters. Till June 2012, the grading system being followed was relative grading,[7] but the college switched to an absolute grading system after consultations with the university.

Crucible Of Research and Innovation (CORI) is a multi-disciplinary research center at PES University. It was inaugurated by Bharat Ratna Dr. C. N. R. Rao (former Director, Indian Institute of Science) on 7 February 2010. It has research facilities and a set of dedicated research staff who carry out research in various areas.[9]

Centre for Intelligent Systems (CIS) is a research center at PES University which researches on topics like Control Systems, Speech, Image and Signal Processing, Robotics, Artificial intelligence and Low Power VLSI design. Selected students do internships in Microsoft Innovation Lab in the university campus.

On 26 September 2016, PISAT was successfully placed into polar Sun Synchronous Orbit (SSO) by India's Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle, in its thirty-seventh flight (PSLV-C35). Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted "I applaud the industrious and innovative students of PES University, Bengaluru, for creating the PISAT that was launched successfully today". The launch vehicle, carrying multiple satellites including PISAT, lifted off from Sriharikota in Andhra Pradesh at 9:12 am.

PISAT is a 3 - axis stabilized imaging nanosatellite weighing about 5 kgs. and generates 13 watts power with S-band RF communication. The major subsystems are: an imaging camera to provide earth imageries with 80 meter resolution, an On Board Computer (OBC), an Attitude Determination and Control System (ADCS), an RF communication system with S Band frequency, telemetry, telecommand, a thermal system and a Structure and Electrical Power System (EPS). The ground software was developed for on-ground orbit determination essential for mission operations.[11]

PISAT was shipped to the Sriharikota Range (SHAR) rocket launch center on 11 September 2016, in the presence of the Director of the ISRO Satellite Centre (ISAC), Dr. Mylswamy Annadurai, SSS PD Mr. Amareshwar Khened and other officials. A team of 11 from PES University were present at SHAR for pre-launch activities of PISAT from 11 to 17 September. During the period, PISAT was interfaced with an ejection mechanism and integrated with the launch vehicle. Earlier, after stringent performance and quality tests by an expert committee, the nanosatellite was formally handed over to the ISRO at a function on the campus attended by top officials from the government and ISRO on 20 April 2016. 
The university was ranked in 101-150 band among universities in India by the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) in 2020,[13] in the 151-200 band overall in 2020[12] and 93 in the engineering ranking in 2020.